Managing Users
If you have a TC or Manager level account, you can manage other translators (users). When data submission starts, you'll want to Lock the users who are no longer active, add new users, and send messages to your users. For the old users you'll want to resend passwords -- it is simplest just to do that for everyone once you've added new users.
When you create users, you give them permissions and choose which locales they are to work on. It is also important that you set your organization's coverage levels appropriately, see "Setting your Organization's Coverage levels".
Managing Users
Open the survey tool, and click on the gear icon in the top left, then pick List <myorg> Users
The tool is still a bit awkward to use, so ask if you have any questions. Note that you shouldn't use your TC or Manager account for voting; that should only be done for carrying out committee decisions. What most people do is open a second account as a Vetter if they have a language they want to contribute to.
To add a user
Click on [Add User] at the top:
➡️
Set the name, email, and locales responsible. To see the locale codes, go to http://unicode.org/cldr/apps/survey?p_codes=t. Just use the language codes in on the right side-- the country parts are ignored.
Note that you must use the right code in the case of synonyms: use he not iw, use pt not pt_BR...
Set the Userlevel based on your assessment of the person's skill. Normally this is "Vetter". You can use "Street" for volunteers whom you don't know. People don't have to come from your organization as long as you have confidence in them.
See the CLDR Process page for a description of the user levels and their privileges.
Known bug: if you try to create a user when the user already has an account, you get an unknown error message. Often this is because the user is locked. Click on "Show locked users", find the person, and change the status (see below).
To resend a password
Make sure you let your users know that they should use their Survey Tool password only for the Survey Tool, since it is often sent to them in email.
In the Action column, pick Send Password for each user you want to send. Then hit the [Do Action] button at the top or bottom of the screen to send the password to all selected users.
If you want to do a bunch at a time, use the "Set menus" box on the left to fill in the Action columns
"all" means the type of user, so pick one or more of those. (eg TC)
"to" means what you want to do (eg Resend password)
Hit the "list" button to set the Action menus for those users.
You'll see a [Change] button; click to do the action (eg resending passwords to TC users)
To log in as one of your users
You will sometimes want to log in as one of your users, for testing. Click on the magnifying glass:
Then use the action Show Password:
You will then get a blue link for Login for XXX. Click on it to log in as that user.
To send a message to all your users
At the bottom, click the box for "Check this box to compose a message to..."
Click [Do Action], and it will take you to a box to compose the message.
Once you have entered the message, click [Do Action]
Next, you need to confirm the message before it goes out.
Fill in your address (you can copy and paste) in the box (this is just to prevent mistakes), and click [Do Action]
Later on, in the vetting phase, you can send messages with the outstanding disputes (cases where people disagree on the translation) by checking the box marked "Check this box to send a Dispute complaint"
To change users' status
Click on the magnifying glass in the left column. You zoom in on that user, and have more Actions in the action column.
Click the one you want, and hit [Do Action]
Normally you don't want to delete users -- you want to Lock them. (Deleting removes information about what they've submitted so far.)
To check that all of your important locales have vetters assigned
Click the "Show Vetting Participation" link at the left, under the top gray bar.
The Gray locales are ones that are not a priority for your organization according to coverage information. (If that's wrong, see "Changing Your Organization's Coverage Levels" )
If you need new locales added, let your committee representative know.
To see what the participation of your vetters has been recently, click on the Participation Shown link at the top
Note: this has a bug currently where the table becomes very wide -- you'll have to scroll or expand your window.
To see how your translators are doing
Open the Priority Items Summary (slow) in the Gear menu.
Click on Recalculate
Take a break, get a cup of coffee (may take 10 minutes or so).
You then get a table that summarizes the status for each locale.
We often find it useful to copy parts of that table into a spreadsheet for comparison.
To see what your translators have done, in the Gear menu go to Priority Items Summary
login to the Survey Tool and go to 'Manage … Users' and then to 'Show Vetting Participation' (link at top left).
You get a view of your translators.
Click on the link "Participation Shown (click to toggle) is currently On / Off ".
Note: there is a bug with the top table causing it to be too wide. Maximize your screen size (and use a wide screen if you have one).
Go get a cup of coffee (this will take a little while)
At the bottom of the screen, you'll see a list of who has participated, and how many submits and votes they've each made.
To check if you have "bad" locales (locales assigned that aren't in CLDR)
Go to Coverage (up at the top right in the survey tool)
If you see the following message, then some of your users have bogus locales OR locales that aren't in CLDR.
Warning: locale designations not matching locales in CLDR: X....
Go to Manage Users (top right), and look at the users signed up to these locales
When they are bogus fix them (work with translator to replace by real locale ids)
When they are valid, you may propose to the committee that we add a locale:
Valid ones are under languages in en.xml
OR (unusual case) under languages in http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-ltru-4645bis-04.txt
However, watch for mistakes, eg someone using "tw" to mean Taiwanese, when it actually means "Twi"