Survey Tool: Dashboard tips
Dashboard
Once you have finished entering data, you will need to review the items for accuracy. To assist with this, use the Survey Tool's Dashboard, accessible through the link in the sidebar.
The Dashboard will show you a list of data items with warnings of different kinds. Some will require action and some may be false positives. The idea here is that you should work the Dashboard down to show zero items.
Dashboard Sections
The Dashboard is divided in these sections. If a section is not visible for you, that means you have no items in that section:
Error: The currently winning value has caused an error in validation that will have to be resolved before release. (High priority.)
Fix the error. In some cases there is a conflict among items, and you'll need to fix the conflicting item, not the one showing the error.
Losing: Your vote is losing against the other vetters’ vote. 
Can you live with the winning value? If so, change your vote. 
Otherwise, use the forum to alert the other vetters and reach consensus.
Disputed: Your vote is winning, but other vetters voted differently.
Use the forum to help reach consensus if possible.
Warning: The winning value has something unexpected in it, perhaps a character that’s not normally used in your language. 
Please review. If it’s an unwarranted warning, you can hide it.
English Changed: The English value changed from last version, but the winning translation in your language remained the same. 
Does the translation need to be updated? If not, you can hide the warning.
New: The winning localized value is different from last year. (Informational.)
Missing: We have no localized value for these values. 
Please provide them. (High priority.)
Provisional: We have a value, but not enough votes to support it and include them in the release. 
Add your vote if you haven’t already and alert other vetters through the forum to support if you have already voted.
Fixing Entries
Each entry has the following: 
A blue field which links to the relevant value in the Survey Tool. The link will open in a new window.
English value
previous CLDR version’s value
currently winning value
Clearing Items
There are two ways to clear items from the list: 
The preferred way is to fix them (such as adding a translation for a missing item). Click on the item line to bring up that item in the Survey Tool where you can change or edit your vote, or post a forum vote to try to convince the other vetters to change their vote for losing or disputed items.
The other is to hide them (such as when the English has changed but the translation doesn’t need to change). Only hide an item if it really is a false positive, not because you gave up on fixing it. To hide an item from view, click on the checkbox on the far right of the item. Note that this will not make it disappear, just hide it from view. Click on the check box next to 'Hide' on the Dashboard menu to hide or unhide hidden lines. The count on each section will show how many items are showing versus the total.
The following are legacy tools to review votes, but the Priority Items tool is deprecated in favor of the Dashboard. This information is presented here for reference.
Review: Priority Items |Date/Time | Zones | Numbers
You can also see a video walkthrough of the review sections on Walkthrough.
The rest of this page discusses how to do the Priority Items. Once you have done the Priority Items, Review reports.
Remember to periodically look at the Forum for your locale. 
On any page in your locale, near the top there is a link "Forum".
Click on it and go through the comments.
If there is a request to change values or votes, either respond on the Forum with why you disagree, or change your vote.
Some issues may be general, such as the capitalization of language names. In the vetting period, please try to resolve these in accordance with the other items in the locale for consistency; leave anything else for the next release. 
If you have time after doing the above, it is useful to review items for consistency.
Go to each Section in the survey tool
Check that related items (like singular/plural) don't have spurious differences
Check that closely related items have consistent translations.
Priority Items
Open your locale, such as https://st.unicode.org/cldr-apps/v#/de//, and log in.
Click on Priority Items. After it loads you’ll see a view over all the possible issues for your locale. Once it loads you can leave it open while you work through the items, so you won’t have to reload very often.
Warning: 
Make sure your coverage level is set correctly: typically modern*. Otherwise you won't see all the issues for your language.
After you change your coverage, or to see the new status of changed items, you must click the Refresh Values button.
In the Priority view, you can see the important issues for your language. At the top is a summary for each kind of issue, looking something like the following:
It is followed by a list of issues, categorized by type.
How to Proceed
You will click on each of the check-boxes above that that don't have a count of zero, and follow the instructions below.
If you have any questions, please contact your organization's CLDR Technical Committee member, or email surveytool@unicode.org.
Goals
Data Submission Phase
Concentrate on fixing the Missing items first, since you can't fix them in the Vetting phase.
You can then work on Error, Warning and Unsync'ed items.
Vetting Phase
Review the New items and Unsync'ed items to make sure that they make sense.
Work on getting of the Error, Losing, Disputed counts down to zero.
The Warning and Unsync'd counts might not be zero after you are done.
The count for New items is informative, it just represents the changes in this release. You do not have to try to reduce it.
Go through the summary list, clicking the checkbox (☑) to show the issues of type you're working on. You can click several at once if you find that easier. That will then expose the issues of that type below the summary.
After the data submission phase, any differences in the submitted data will be resolved according to the data resolution process. 
How to Handle
Handle each of the types of issues as follows:
Missing* (only applicable during Data Submission Phase)
Add the missing value, or vote for an "inherited" value (in a special color)
Unless there is some other error, you can't change these during the vetting phase, so make sure to get them done early!
Error*, Warning*
Go to the item (by clicking the Fix? link).
Error items will be removed from the release, so they are a priority in the vetting phase.
Review the warning items; most of them need fixing but not all. See Fixing Errors and Warnings
Losing*, Disputed*
See if the winning value is ok. If so, change your vote to it, and go to the next item.
Otherwise, post a message to the Forum.
State why you think the item should be changed.
If there are a number of items that have the same characteristic (such as the wrong capitalization), you can make that case in a single posting rather than multiple ones.
New*
Quickly scan over these values.
If the values are ok, then you don't need to do anything. If not, follow the instructions above.
Unsync’d*
For the Unsync'd issues, the older English value is listed below the new one, and in Red. (See below). These often indicate that a change needs to be made in your language. For example, in the tables below
The English value was changed so that the locale "zh-Hans" shows up as "Chinese (Simplified)" rather than the somewhat redundant  "Chinese (Simplified Han)". The corresponding change should be made to French.
Similarly, the English was simplified for "Unknown Script"; that change should also be made to French.
On the other hand, the change for that particular currency name in English is specific to English, and doesn't need to be reflected in French.
Section: names — Page: script
Section: names — Subsection: currency
Review
Once you have completed your items, review the Priority Items again to see that all the changes are as expected. 